>> Kyle Simpson: So far in this course,
we've looked at a whole bunch
of different perspectives on
how we can perform operations on values
in a functionally consistent way.
But all of the values that we've
been performing them on have been
values that are present
at this exact moment.
For example, we take the number 42 and
we increment it to the number 43.
Or we take a list of these numbers and
we turn them into a list of strings.
These are all things that
are present immediately right now.
The great part about functional
programming is that all of the concepts
that we have learned extend not just
to the values that are present now,
but also to the values that
will be present eventually.
So we wanna look at a way,
a way, not the only way, but
a way of adapting functional
principles to asynchronous programming.
I wanna motivate that by first saying,
here's a synchronous version
of a .map operation.
We have an array called a with
the values 1, 2, and 3 in it and
we call a.map, we're gonna get another
array back b that has 2, 4, 6 in it.
We can only get that array 2,
4, 6 because the numbers 1, 2,
3 were in the array at
the time of .map call.
If I flipped this code around,
if I said a.map on an empty array and
then after the .map call,
I added the numbers 1, 2, 3 in it.
You're not gonna expect those numbers
to have ended up in b, are you?
So that's what we mean by it is
synchronous and it is eager,
it's gonna consume everything that it
has available to it in that array and
it's gonna do it right now.
And if there's a value that comes later,
if I later on line 8 said a.push 4.
A values is not gonna show up in b, is it?
Only the values that show up in
b are the values that were in
a at the time of the map.
That's what we call synchronous and
eager operations.
But how could we do that same sort
of functional concept of mapping and
do it lazily over time?
It seems like such a great concept,
is there any way to adapt it over time?
I'm gonna conceive of
a hypothetical data structure.
This isn't something that actually exists.
But I want you to imagine if I
had an operation called mapLazy,
instead of map which we know is map eager,
what if I had a mapLazy?
It doesn't matter that this doesn't exist,
this is just a construct for
us to consider.
Imagine a mapLazy that creates some
sort of a relationship between a and b.
Where, at the moment,
on line 6, b is empty but
at some later time when
I call a.push(1) and
a has the value 1,
guess what is gonna be in b?
It's gonna sort of retroactively run
that map operation and show up in b.
And then later I could do a.push again and
the value will be not on the originally in
a, but the mapped value will show up in b.
Can you see why a lazy map like that
would be a nice, cool tool if we had,
it could create this sort of asynchronous
relationship between a and b.
And it would solve a lot of our
problems in terms of mapping, or
in terms of annotating in our code,
flows of data that are not synchronous,
but asynchronous, right?
Imagine a composition that was
like an asynchronous composition.
Where the thing was here, and then it
was here, and then it was here, and
then it was here, but
there was time involved in between.
So mapLazy isn't a thing that exists, at
least not in this particular formulation.
Let's twist it around a little bit and
instead of thinking about a mapLazy over
regular arrays,
maybe what we really need is a lazy array.
What is I could construct a thing
called a LazyArray, we'll call it a.
And then over time, I'm just gonna
set up an interval and over time,
once per second, I'm just gonna
push a random number into a.
That would be an interesting
data structure because if I
were then to set up a b,
which was a mapping from a,
over time I would see the value showing
up in b, after they showed up in a.
And the value that would show up in b was
the mapped value from what it was when it
showed up in a.
They've been instantaneous
propagation from a over into b.
Every time and he showed up,
it would get mapped to a new value in b.
In this b.forEach was sort of just
be like an event handler that was
just getting called every time a new value
showed up, it invoked the forEach and
in this case console logged it.
So it's sort of an event listener almost,
lazyArray would be a pretty cool
data structure, wouldn't it?